=Welcome to RAD (Ruby Arduino Development)

RAD is a framework for programming the Arduino physcial computing platform using Ruby. RAD converts Ruby scripts written using a set of Rails-like conventions and helpers into C source code which can be compiled and run on the Arduino microcontroller. It also provides a set of Rake tasks for automating the compilation and upload process.

For a full introduction see http://rad.rubyforge.org

==Documentation

The main documentation is here: ArduinoSketch.

See also the Arduino Software reference: http://www.arduino.cc/en/Reference/HomePage

==Examples

See the examples directory for lots of examples of RAD in action: 
http://github.com/atduskgreg/rad/tree/master/lib/examples

The atduskgreg/rad wiki also contains a growing library of examples and hardware tutorials:
http://github.com/atduskgreg/rad/wikis

==Getting Started

To install the edge gem:

 # Update to RubyGems 1.2.0 before proceeding!
 $ gem sources -a http://gems.github.com (you only have to do this once)
 $ sudo gem install atduskgreg-rad

A very old and feature poor (though slightly more 'stable' RAD) is available from RubyGems:

 $ sudo gem install rad

We plan to push tagged releases to RubyGems at key points. The 0.3 release should be coming up soon.

Run the rad command to create a new project:

 $ rad my_project

Write a sketch that will blink a single LED every 500ms:

  class MyProject < ArduinoSketch
  	output_pin 13, :as => led
  	
  	def loop
  		blink led, 500
  	end
  end

Attach your Arduino and use rake to complile and upload your sketch:

 $ rake make:upload

==Installing the Arduino Software

Installing RAD and the Arduino software on Linux can be a little more difficult than on OS X. Thankfully, the RAD command line tool can help. Run:

    $ rad install arduino

And RAD will do its best to get the Arduino software installed on your system.

==Get Involved

Cheers? Jeers? Wanna help out? Contact Greg Borenstein: greg [dot] borenstein [at] gmail [dot] com